# Heat Sources - Wet System Boilers

```{admonition} A hidden setting - the boiler thermostat temperature
:class: tip

It matters how hot the water is in your pipework - the more difference between it and the temperature of the surrounding air, the faster heat will be transferred.  Many people forget that can be set.  Unless you have a building management system (BMS), that is done using a dial on the facade of the boiler.  The dial usually goes from around :TODO: degrees to 82C.  The right setting depends on how you use your heating.  On high, the building will heat up faster from cold, but once the building is at the right temperature, it's more efficient to run the boiler at the lowest temperature that will maintain it.  This can also be more comfortable for the users because the temperature will change more gently when the system turns on and off.  

That means that if your building is only occupied for short times, you want the boiler to run at a high temperature, because it is only used to heat the building from cold.  This will make the radiators hotter to the touch, so do check they will be safe for your users.  Occasionally worship spaces will be capable of warming up so fast that the organ objects, so if you intend to make a big change to the boiler thermostat, talk to your organist first.  If a space with high-output boiler is heated for longer periods, it may be worth investing in a BMS if you don't already have one.  A BMS changes the boiler temperature to suit the conditions.  It still has settings for the minimum and maximum boiler temperatures to use.  

```

:TODO: @jean check the relationship between the BMS and boiler settings; @andrew will need to decide whether this kind of text is OK. 

https://www.theheatinghub.co.uk/help-centre - fantastic resource to understand how the system works; applies to domestic but much of it is also applicable here.  Highlights:


https://www.theheatinghub.co.uk/thermostat-guide-wireless-digital-room-central-heating-controls talks about a 2018 change where all combi boilers need some of: weather compensation, flow compensation, or smart control with automation and optimisation functions scheme, flue gas recovery unit.  So pre-2018 boilers, we need to figure out which of these makes sense.  Weather compensation isn't good with occasional space heating.  SO - if boiler pre-2018, consider whether you should install these things.

https://www.theheatinghub.co.uk/articles/hot-water-efficiency-tips especially turning off hot water preheat.

